Converting between CSV and JSON were not too difficult and worked very easily. However, converting to SQL was more difficult. We chose to use SQLITE 3, which we used earlier in class, in order to convert to SQL. Our main struggle was checking to see if the conversion was occuring into JSON correctly. Using some intermediate queries, we were able to diagnose when some things were working and when others had hiccups. The way we chose to create our SQL commands was a bit messy (using string concatenation in a for loop), so that took a while to debug, but using a print statement to check it solved most of our problems.

We also had never before had to use "try/except" error catching before, which seems easy to learn, but difficult to master. The errors we used it to catch were not too complicated, but I can see how the tool would make some unwieldy programs with thousands of lines of code a lot easier to debug. Additionally, when encountering an error that you have seen before, it is much better to have a short version of the error, such as "incorrect file type", then to have a hundred-word indecipherable printout that ends with "function unable to run". Creating the actual try/excepts required a bit of finesse, in creating the opportunities for a specific line of code to break within the try segment. In doing so, it actually reinforced our understanding of exactly how certain processes work by specifically looking for how to get an error thrown.

A script for converting data between different types would have been very useful for a project in a class we both took last semester, DS 4003 with Prof. Kupperman. We both had multiple source inputs in different formats for our individual projects, and having all of the data in one format (all in CSVs for example) would have made the initial stages of the project much easier. Additionally, because it is a lot easier to visualize data cleaning in a CSV, converting a JSON or SQL file to CSV to visually inspect may make some projects easier. Inversely, had we been less busy, it would have been useful to use what we learned in DS 4003 to create an interactive web application using Plotly Dash that we could use. This would make a much more streamlined user interface where we could upload the file, rather than input a relational file path. This was ultimately not in the cards for us timewise, considering it was not a requirement, but is something we would have liked to do.

This could also be useful moving forward in converting data types at the end of a project. For example, if JSON is being used for some data manipulation to go into two different projects where a CSV might be most helpful, this tool provides an easy way to convert between the two. It is easy to imagine that data will be provided to us in a variety of formats, and there may be different reasons for us to output a JSON to be parsed, or a CSV to be more easily read as an Excel file.
